# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (May 19, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion 
       * Interoperability TF: continue the discussion on the key areas of activity of the TF

## Participants

   * Antoine Zimmermann (chair)
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Terry Payne
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Ege Korkan
   * Raza Naqvi

## Regrets

   * Rem Collier

**Scribe**: Terry Payne

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-05-09.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-05-09.md)

## Meeting Notes

Introduction of new member:

Raza Naqvi: I am an researcher with a focus on semantic web technologies, ontologies, and knowledge graphs. My work centers on structuring and formalizing knowledge to enable intelligent systems to reason, explain, and make informed decisions. I am particularly interested in how semantic representations can enhance interoperability, support automated reasoning, and bridge the gap between human knowledge and machine understanding. 

Approve the minutes - approved.

*General updates:*

**AI Agent Protocol Community Group**:

   * Members behind the Agent Network Protocol created this new W3C community group
   * Some overlap? (question to participants) No reaction :)
   * Consensus by chairs - Webagents CG observing landscape, so other groups can co-exist, **but we should ensure coordination** with this group.
   * Ideally need someone to be member in both groups to ensure coordination.
   * Interoperability Task Force - not focussing on specifications (though will look at surveys, guidelines of requirements etc), but can provide input to groups producing specification (incl. the ANP CG)
       * 4 other groups overlap with WebAgents, so effort is required to  monitor \& coordinate with these (i.e. Solid, Web of Things, Linked Web storage, Agent Network Protocol)
   * 

Task Forces:

   * Nothing to report on the Use Cases TF and the Manageable Affordances TF; our energy was lately invested in the Interoperability TF
   * Main work on interoperability task force
       * Main discussion today, to get something concrete and visible
       * Aim for a document or report
           * (see below to link for the Interoperability TF)
       * Andrei works through document explaining the structure and identifying volunteers
   * Current Structure:
       * 2: Agents on the Web - with multiple overview subsections, with concise descriptions/introductions
           * Provides big picture - also needs to resolve following questions:
               * What should be the role of the Web?
               * What should be the role of the W3C?
           * 2.4 Web based MAS (start from conceptual view)
           * Comparative Table has already been proposed (Joshua) - columns could relate to doc structure
           * See the picture sent to the list: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webagents/2025May/att-0007/image001.png](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webagents/2025May/att-0007/image001.png)
           * include summary for how each is resolved and link to other frameworks
       * Requirements can be turned into problem (challenge) - is this the direction we want to go?
           * Problem should define the scope of each subsection
           * Sections 3-9 constitute the main problems
   * Procedural Issues - Workflow
       * Good to get people to contribute through git.  Conflicts of opinion not anticipated, but if occur, participants should discuss and resolve (offline or through a community meeting).
       * We should add a general agenda item to check and resolve open conflicts in the document
   * Two things to address today:
       * Discuss the comparative table
           * Would like a synthesis of landscape similar to the comparative table in Section 2
           * What are the essential criteria for the beginning of the document?
               * First critique of columns?
               * Need to agree on the semantics of each column, and its values (with references and explanation - thus a better correlation to each section) - constrained set of keywords?
       * Who will work on each part of the doc? *To be resolved*
           * Content could be added to other sections (i.e. not section 2) when describing existing work, but focus is mainly on section 2
               * Helps identify relevant approaches and frameworks
               * Need to specify the problems for each subsection
               * Github issues could be used
               * If anyone could make contributions (including bullet points)?
                   * Raza - tools and agents AI (focus on social web)
                   * Terry - Agents and Web Services
               * Chairs will provide some further content to provide structure
           * Want to plan a timeline - 

*Open Discussion:*

Link to Interoperability TF Report: [https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html](https://w3c-cg.github.io/webagents/TaskForces/Interoperability/Reports/report-interoperability.html)
