# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (May 9, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion 
       * Interoperability TF: continue the discussion on the key areas of activity of the TF

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Terry Payne
   * Jérémie Lemée
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Rem Collier
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Robert Winkler
   * Andrei Olaru
   * Katharine Beaumont


## Regrets

   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Ege Korkan

**Scribe**: Katharine Beaumont

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-04-11.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-04-11.md)

## Meeting Notes

*No new participants to the group.*

*The previous meeting notes were approved.*

*General updates:*    

The subject of the meeting is to discuss the Interoperability Task Force. The notes from the previous meeting were reviewed. 

The HyperAgents workshop at ECAI 2025: [https://ecai2025.org/workshops/](https://ecai2025.org/workshops/) is coming up and attendance and submissions are welcome. There is a huge amount of interest in Language Agents and where the Web fits in, where W3C fits in. We need to discuss the conceptual picture and where initiatives fit in (relating to the W3C community group). 

Andrei Olaru: the EUMAS is in September in Bucharest, with an Agent Toolkits session during the conference. There will also be a summer school. [https://euramas.github.io/eumas2025/](https://euramas.github.io/eumas2025/)

*Open Discussion:*

Andrei Ciortea: A discussion point for today is the Community Group Report on Interoperability. The document is shared and discussed. The goal of the introduction is to paint a concise history of agents on the Web, then a brief section on the state of the art on Web-based MAS. This should inform the next section; a conceptual overview of Web based MAS.

Robert Winkler: we could focus not only on agent-agent interactions, or humans as the Web was built for humans. There are a number of different dimensions for example, agents which appear to be humans. There is a lot of work in Europe on digital identities; digital wallets, passports, licensing and so on. How do agents fit in to this new digital architecture? Do they act like digital identities? Do they really have an identity or just a URL? How does human-agent interaction then work? How is the idenity of the agent verified (how does a human verify it is talking to an agent vs a human). 

How does an agent access your personal data, to your credentials, and how do you trust the agent to give it your credentials? How should this trust framework work?

A lot of these frameworks look into client-server architectures, but what has scaled in the past (e-mail, social Web frameworks) are more federated protocols that work differently. On the social Web, to talk to someone you use an alias; this might also be a future for the Web. Look at A2A and MCP work.

Andrei Ciortea: the solution we are discussing allows for different types of interaction, this aligns with some of the points raised in the previous meeting. This is why we need a conceptual big picture, as things can develop in a bottom-up approach: what are the current standards, can we integrate these, make choices based on these ... it helps to also have the top-down approach.

RW: There needs to be an overlay, an intersection between humans and agents. We need to look into how humans are authenticated, the data they provide, and how this could possibly fit together with agent authentication, etc, and the mechanisms they require. MAS are groups, we could reuse concepts like spaces and rooms. It would be good to understand how everything fits together, how to create a new group of agents, invite an agent into the group. A mechanism to dynamically create a new room or space, and verify they have been developed by a certain party is an interesting point to bring into the design. Agent to agent isn't peer to peer, it is group collaboration, more like swarm intelligence: everyone in the group needs to be notified about state change, for example, and many protocols don't address this. 

AC: In the current document structure we don't capture the human aspect, and they [humans] should be central. We had a joint meeting with the SOLID community group ([https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/)](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/)) to identify points of overlap. Where do we draw the boundary of our focus? Another important point is about groups, or ogranisations in general. We have had a brief discussion which needs to be extended about this. There is previous work looking at integrating concepts from MAS with the Social Web (groups, organisations). We have a few people in the community group who have been working on this. The question is, should the report (in question) be extended to discuss this? Or is it a separate report on organisations, norms and policies?

Rem: I think we need to touch on it in the report, and have some commentary on it, but not necessarily in depth. We ran out of time when discussing in previous meetings. There is a lot to consider already in the report.

AC: I think it makes sense to consider it, this is the first report: we look at the issues here, and build the big picture, rather than propose solutions. 

Should we have a section on the decentralised social Web (in Section 2, Agents on the Web)? Like "State of the Decentralised Social Web".

Rem Collier: Are we not more interested there in the relationship between them than the "state of", e.g. to say this is an area we know is relevant. 

*New subsection added, "Agents and the Decentralised Social Web"*

Question: what is the relationship between agents and the decentralised social Web? 

Jérémie Lemée:  In the MAS community there is a lot of work on different models that developed independently of the Web. In the Web community, there are lots of models and standards also. Do we propose either set of models as a foundation, how do we integrate the different models?

AC: In this report, we need to not be opinionated in how any integration should happen, more to paint a picture. We have to be a little opinionated in the conceptual overview, on how things should look, but at this stage I'd be reluctant. We need to identify common denominators between different communities who would contribute to the report.

RW: Question, what is FIPA?

AC: The Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents (FIPA) was a standardization body with large industrial support in the early 2000s. A set of standards for agent platforms. They are still online and available. [http://www.fipa.org/specifications/](http://www.fipa.org/specifications/)

An understanding of hypermedia was missing at that time, this was before work on Web services. 

DW: Are distributed identifiers the best mechanism? Some of these technologies are quite new, but the time is coming when agents are collaborating more and more integrated than Web services. The future is more dynamic. E.g. the European Digital Wallet is looking into it, and the Open ID Connect community ([https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/)](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/)).

[https://eclipse.dev/lmos/docs/multi\_agent\_system/overview/](https://eclipse.dev/lmos/docs/multi\_agent\_system/overview/)

[https://eclipse.dev/lmos/docs/lmos\_protocol/introduction/](https://eclipse.dev/lmos/docs/lmos\_protocol/introduction/) 

- We could use some of the text from these reports.

Jean-Paul Calbimonte: Agentic AI platforms which derive from GenAI are frequently mentioned by people new to the topic; they are quite confused about the concepts behind agents / MAS. It would be good to clarify and define this.

AC: Yes, and it would be good to draw a distinction with Swarms, maybe we will have a section on co-ordination. 

AO: Maybe we should try to focus on a limited range of topics that could go in the direction of a standard. Here we could be inspired by the FIPA set of standards, because they set the number of standards but they are sufficiently separate that they can be used independently. What is this kernel we can address that would be sufficient for interaction between a large variety of agents, agent types and agentic AI. Would would that kernel be? How could it be expanded if occasion and possibility arise? What do we want to focus on? What type of output would we like to have.

Terry Payne: For me, representational languages, ontologies, the Semantic Web is not mentioned. This plays a key role in interoperability. Is there a reason for this?

AC: For me, the Semantic Web is in all of these sections.

TP: Yes, it should permeate through the whole document. It might be worth mentioning it, then linking it.

AC: For the next meeting I'll try to better structure Section 2, and maybe the communities we are trying to represent should be there too.

RC: It  would be great to share this on the larger mailing list to get wider feedback, and report for the next meeting, to get everyone on board.

AC: Let's consolidate this more, then open it up.
