# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (April 11, 2025)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Open discussion 
       * Interoperability TF: continue the discussion on the key areas of activity of the TF

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Ege Korkan
   * L. Gustavo Nardin
   * Rem Collier
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Alexandru Sorici
   * Julian Padget
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Fabien Gandon
   * Andrei Olaru

## Regrets

   * Antoine Zimmermann

**Scribe**: Danai Vachtsevanou

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/77/files](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/77/files)

## Meeting Notes

### Introduction

#### New participants

-

#### Review of minutes

Scope of the Interoperability Task Force (ITF) (under discussion), including:

   1. agent identification
   1. tool identification
   1. agent profiles (and what goes in them)
   1. agent discovery
   1. agent interaction/coordination/cooperation/negotiation
   1. agent communication

Points 1-4 were discussed in the previous meeting (see also Google doc).


#### General CG updates

Next regular meeting, Monday 21 April 2025, is cancelled because it is a public holiday in many countries.

HyperAgents 2025 workshop at ECAI 2025 (Bologna, Oct. 25-30, 2025): [https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/](https://ecai2025.hyperagents.org/)


### Task forces

#### Interoperability

#### Manageable affordances

#### Use cases

### Discussion

Interoperability task force description: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/Interoperability](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/TaskForces/Interoperability)

Agent Interaction 

   * Agent-to-agent protocol (Google) for language agents: complement the Model Context protocol (decoupling agents from specific tools) from Anthropic ([https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)]([]https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)[])
   * FIPA Protocols
   * Interaction-Oriented Software Engineering (Singh et al.)
   * Agents \& Artifacts (Ricci et al.)
   * Yggdrasil: [https://github.com/interactions-HSG/yggdrasil]([]https://github.com/interactions-HSG/yggdrasil[])
   * Environment Interface Standard: [https://github.com/eishub/eis]([]https://github.com/eishub/eis[])
   * (see more on the Google doc)

[Discussion topic: Agent-to-environment interaction]

[In relation to the Model Context protocol]

Andrei C.: It would be great to have someone from Anthropic to present the work on the Model Context protocol (MCP). They have the concept of *resource *identified through a URI, and they use MIME types. However, the alignment with the Web architecture stays there; they use an RPC-style underlying architecture.

[Fabien joins]

Fabien: W3C has considered MCP in their discussions. The question [by W3C] is whether to consider MCP for standardization, or whether to wait for additional initiatives to emerge. A transversal W3C group for AI could be needed (as it established for Accessibility).

[Continuing the discussion about relevant approaches]    

Rem: Is LMOS mainly targeting agent-to-agent interaction or agent-to-environment interaction?

Ege: It's both, without addressing coordination.

Andrei C.: I would also classify LMOS primarily to agent-to-agent interaction. It needs to be considered later in case we require classifying the approaches (more formally) for a CG report.

Alexandru: We should note that these approaches (e.g., MCP), they are driven by the capabilities that are inherit in language models, not from some reflection on a conceptual model that encompasses agent interaction. It is an engineering effort to address the requirements of people who want to quickly use to tools (datasets) that are to be used by large language models. As a resurt one type of representation might be proposed because it is very well aligned with one specific model. People then might adopt this type of representation in order to "move fast". This might be one of the reasons that W3C would like to wait, since approaches might change. 

Fabien: Great point. I tried to discuss upon the question of whether "W3C should get involved or not in such initiative" Making a good choice on representation and people to be in the table, so as to not reinvent the weel, and to not be to atatched to one language model. 

Stephen: [Pointing to work on A Policy-Based Approach ([https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-19282-6\_11)](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-19282-6\_11))]

Andrei C.: Thank you, Stephen. Looking at literature is what would be useful to do from our side (so, not going necessarily from a botton-up approach). In this context, having a closer look to the A\&A meta-model would also be relevant. 

[Recapping on identified issues: 

   1. What is a useful conceptual model for agent to environment interaction?
   2. What is a useful architectural style?
   3. Can we recommend specific protocols or approaches (e.g., WoT protocol bindings)?]

Andrei C.: (3) could also be provided as an extension point. 

Alexandru: Does (3) also considers the representation format of protocols, given that a specific format might be more useful for one type of agent than to others. Then, content negotiation might also be in scope.

Andrei O.: I was looking at MCP. One point I would like to share is to learn from past mistakes, and having a clear separation of concerns accross distinct layers. Maybe a discussion on the isolation of different layers could be approapriate (e.g., transport, application etc.). Even in coding the various items in a message, [MCP] specifies that JSON should be used. 

Andrei C.: This fits to the question regarding what is within the scope of our proposal (e.g., serialization formats might not be within the scope). 

Rem: One additional thing that I see missing in current initiatives is considering the relations between the different tools.

Andrei C.: One way to phrase this is supporting the decoupling not only at the interface level, but also at the functional level.

Jeremy: This would be handled on top of the interface level (e.g., on top of MCP).

Rem: Agreed, or on top of W3C WoT TDs, for example.

Andrei C.: I believe that the A\&A meta-model might offer some directions for this, e.g., by discussing "workspaces" or "manuals".

[Discussion topic: Agent-to-agent interaction]

Ege: The open issues remain the same: 

   1. What is within the scope of the WebAgents CG? Perhaps complementary to: [https://las-wg.org/]([]https://las-wg.org/[])
   2. What is the right architecture? What are the protocols?

Andrei O.: Maybe there should be some discussion about whether, from a modelling perspective, there is a difference between sending a request to a tool, or sending a request to an agent. E.g., if an LLM-based agent calls for a service, does the agent care whether there is a tool or service behind the service?

Andrei C.: Another way to phrase it is considering "what is an agent" and "what is not an agent".

Rem: It might play a role in order to create opportunities for collaboration or negotiation.

Stephen: Agents could also communicate with each other at the "goal level", for instance trying to pursue shared goals (e.g., upon getting notified by a coordination middleware). 

Andrei O.: Maybe this could be a contribution of this WG to current initiatives, that are currently missing this higher level of coordination and organization ([such initiatives] are mainly focusing on a server-client level of interaction).

Andrei C.: Stephen, would you also consider that we should add a category [in the Google doc] about a normative layer?

Stephen: This would rather fit in a type of agent-to-society interaction, and not in agent-to-agent interaction.

Julian: A way to think about this is that a normative framework is another type of environment, which contains information about each of the normative spaces that exist. This is how we did it in Jason by extending and specializing the Environment class. 

[Closing]

Rem: We could discuss the templates in the next meeting.

Andrei C.: We should also go back to discuss what is the role of the environment.